---
title: "NemoGB: An R Package for Calculating Course Grades"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2025-12-11-nemogb
excerpt: 'NemoGB allows for accurate and systematic computations of the final course letter grades. These computations require two inputs: a specifically structured YAML file representing the grading policy from the class syllabus and the assignment grades in CSV (comma-separated value) format. The package uses these two inputs to break down any complex syllabi into methodical computations that can be documented and tested.'
date: 2025-12-11
venue: 'The Journal of Open Source Education'
paperurl: 'https://jose.theoj.org/papers/10.21105/jose.00303'
citation: 'Jayaprakash et al., (2025). NemoGB: An R Package for Calculating Course Grades. Journal of Open Source Education, 8(94), 303, https://doi.org/10.21105/jose.00303.'
---

While the final grade at the end of a course is an elementary part of most college courses,
the computations for these grades quickly become deceptively intricate, especially with
larger STEM classes that use various complexities to accommodate a diverse student
body. Even though most classes use slight variations of the same policies, many learning
management systems (LMS) cannot sustain these complex computations. In response,
instructors may turn to hard-coded scripts. These scripts can quickly accumulate hundreds
of lines of code, and there is no clear method to assess accuracy of the final computation.

NemoGB is an R package that maintains the structure and complexity of a course grade while
guaranteeing accuracy through comprehensive unit-testing. The challenges of consistency
and precision in grading systems are addressed by applying the practices of data analysis
and the principles of software development. The rigorous unit-testing in the package
minimizes computational error and reduces the manual inputs, significantly lowering the
risks of typographic and logical errors in scripts. Because of this, course grades can be
computed accurately and quickly: the accuracy allows course instructors to have reliable
grade computations, and the speed allows them to compute grades throughout the semester
in order to monitor student progress. 